>> Jen Kramer: I'd like you to
start a whole new web page.
>> Jen Kramer: Start
a whole brand new web page.
So everything that we've done today
is gonna come into play here.
Start a whole new web page.
Remember File > New File, right?
And I would like for
you to go on ahead and
put in some information
on this web page too.
If you wanna just copy over your
hobby information, My Fine Hobbies,
we can just copy that over from
this page into the other one.
You can write a little bit about
your hobbies, make some links okay?
Just go on ahead and
start a whole new page,
as much as you can do in five minutes.
And then we'll wind up linking these two
pages together, once you've gone ahead and
put some stuff on another page.
Sound good?
>> Speaker 2: Do we need to
name it a .html file in order-
>> Jen Kramer: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: Absolutely,
you need to name it as a .html file.
All right, so go on ahead and
make a new file.
We'll go to File > New File.
Okay, so here's our new web page.
Now we're gonna go File > Save.
>> Jen Kramer: And here inside,
it's gonna save to your day1 folder.
Let's call it hobbies.html, okay?
Here we go.
What do we do next?
>> Speaker 4: Exclamation point tab.
>> Jen Kramer: Exclamation point tab,
that puts in all the crazy
stuff at the top of the page.
>> Jen Kramer: What's the next
thing that we should do?
>> Jen Kramer: Anybody know?
Yeah, Jen?
>> Jen: A title?
>> Jen Kramer: Change the title,
all right,
My Great Hobbies, okay?
>> Jen Kramer: And then you can either
type here in between the body tags, or
you can just copy and paste over
from your other page, that's good.
>> Jen Kramer: We can throw in, so
this is probably no longer an h2 now.
This is probably an h1, since this
is the title of my web page right?
Maybe I want to put it
a little paragraph at the top.
I enjoy doing many things
with my spare time.
I don't have much spare time,
but when I do,
you can find me doing one of these things.
And remember, if it goes way too long and
it runs off the page,
you can word wrap it.
Go to View > Toggle Word Wrap.
It'll all come back onto one screen again.
View > Toggle Word Wrap.
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah?
>> Speaker 5: So I know that a lot of
of websites, for their HTML documents,
will be called index.html.
Is that just a convention or
is there a particular reason for that?
>> Jen Kramer: There is a reason for that.
We actually don't get to
that reason until day five.
But the reason for
that is that that is your homepage.
A homepage is always called index.html.
All your other pages will
be called something else.
Okay, so you have sort of a,
kind of a start of a web page here.
There's not a whole lot, but that's okay.
That's where we are today, all right?
So we now have two pages.
We have a homepage, that's our index.html.
And we have a hobbies page, right?
Wouldn't it be nice if we could
get from one page to the other?
Gosh, it'd be great if we could do that?
Okay, so let's go on ahead and
make that happen.
Down here on your homepage, let's go on
ahead, and I'm trying to decide if I want
to put this at the top or the bottom.
It probably makes more sense at the bottom
of the page, in terms of the content.
But I'm gonna put it at
the top of the page, so
that you all can see what I'm doing.
So I'm gonna put this just after my h1.
And if you wanna put yours at the bottom
of your web page, that's cool, too.
The code will be the same,
no matter where you wanna put it.
And I'm gonna put mine in here,
and I'm gonna put in a paragraph.
And I'm going to say, Visit my, right?
Visit my, and
then we're gonna put in our, which tag?
Which tag is going to make
a link from one page to another?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: a?
>> Jen Kramer: The a tag, right?
So I'm gonna put in my a tag.
a, what comes after a?
>> Speaker 2: href?
>> Jen Kramer: href equals.
All right, so now comes the hard part.
How do we get from our web
page to the other web page?
And our pages are not on the Internet,
so what are we going to do?
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Are we just gonna put
the name of our other page-
>> Jen Kramer: We are gonna just put
the other name of our page.
So if you take a look in your folder now,
right,
we have our two pages there
right next to each other.
They're in the same place in the folder.
So all we need to do is link one to the
other just by typing the name of the page
where we want to go.
So this will be hobbies.html.
And in fact,
the code editor will help you.
Yes?
>> Speaker 6: If we did have
a web page already made,
would that still link the pages
if a user clicked on it?
Or would you have to put the URL?
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so if you already
have a web page that is already in
existence, is that on your computer also?
Or is it somewhere out
there on the Internet?
>> Speaker 6: Some place on the Internet.
>> Jen Kramer: Somewhere
out there on the Internet.
Okay, so if it's anything but in the exact
same website that you're currently working
on, we're working on one website, right?
So if it's anything that's
not this website right now,
you're gonna need that whole
HTTP in order to link to it.
>> Speaker 6: What if all the web
pages were part of the same domain?
>> Jen Kramer: And
if they are all in the same folder,
we're all working on them all together,
then you can use this methodology
to link the pages together, okay?
All right, hobbies.html,
do we want this open in a new window?
Typically, what we do when we're linking
to a page that's the same one on
our same website,
we wanna link to it in the same window.
It's when we link to pages that go to
other websites that we open them in
new tabs.
So we're not gonna put in the whole
target equals blank thing.
We're not gonna do that here.
We're just gonna end our tag here,
hobbies page.
Just like that, okay?
Visit my hobbies page.
So if we go on ahead and save that, and
let's look at that link.
See now, that my Visit my
hobbies page link is blue,
cuz I have never been there before, right?
And when I click on it,
I got my hobbies page.
If it didn't work, chances are you
made a typo in here somewhere.
You said .htm instead of .html for
your file name.
You spelled hobbies wrong.
There's a space in there somewhere.
Usually, it's that kind of thing
that's going to break your link.
Okay, so why don't you guys now take, you
know what I'm gonna ask you next, right?
Now you're on your hobbies page, and you
can't get back to your homepage, right?
Go ahead and take two minutes and
write a link that will take you from
your hobbies page back to your homepage.